# -Masters_thesis
This is my master's thesis :  Synthesis of Metformin Loaded PLGA-PEG(Poly-D,L-Lactic-Co-Glycolic Acid- Poly Ethylene Glycolic Acid) Nanoparticles and In vitro Investigation of Anticancer Effects  on Follicular Thyroid Cancer (FTC-133) Cell line
Introduction: Thyroid cancer (TC) is the 9th type of cancer worldwide, which is an endocrine malignancy. In the treatment of thyroid cancer, methods such as surgery, radioiodine, radiotherapy and chemotherapy are used. However, the effects of these treatment methods are limited due to their harmful side effects and their toxicities. Nanoparticulate drug delivery systems are used to reduce the problems of such treatments.
Objective: The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of free metformin, PLGA-PEG polymer and PLGA-PEG-MET nanoparticles on the FTC-133 cell line.
Methods: Firstly, metformin loaded polymeric PEGylated PLGA (PLGA-PEG-MET) nanoparticles were synthesized by double emulsion method and free metformin, PLGA-PEG polymers, PLGA-PEG-MET nanoparticles were characterized by FT-IR, ZetaSizer and SEM devices. The effects of the three groups on cell viability were determined by WST-1 viability test and colony formation test. Also, mTOR, AMPK, p-AMPK and PARP protein expressions were analyzed by Western blot analysis.
Results: According to in vitro experiments, free metformin and PLGA-PEG-MET nanoparticles showed a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability. The IC50 values of free metformin and PLGA-PEG-MET nanoparticles were 38.2 mM and 31.9 mM, respectively. In addition, according to western blot analysis, a decrease in mTOR expression and also, a increase in AMPK and p-AMPK expression were observed depending on the doses of free metformin.
Conclusion: In the light of these findings, the use of PLGA-PEG-MET nanoparticles in the treatment of thyroid cancer can be recommended. For this, it is necessary to improve the therapeutic efficacy of metformin nanoparticles modified with PLGA-PEG polymer in vitro and in vivo.
Key words: Thyroid Cancer, Metformin, Nanoparticle Drug System, PLGA (Poly-D,L-Lactic-Co-Glycolic Acid), PEG(Poly Ethylene Glycolic Acid)
